

                        S A M P L E    R E P O R T



                       Learning Pokemon Classifiers
                             Mac Hine Learner
                           COMP9417, Assignment 2


Introduction

Pokemon cards have become very valuable.  It is becoming economically
worthwhile to have an automated method of classifying digital images of various
cards (Smith and Jones, 2008).  There are now several repositories of such
images on the web, one of which was used in this project.
...

The goal of this project was to implement a small set of features
designed specifically to capture properties of Pokemon cards,
and use these in addition to standard image-processing features 
to learn classifiers using at least two different classifier
learning algorithms.
...


Domain specific image features

Pokemon cards have certain properties such as faces of characters which
determine the particular characters on a card. Three new features were
generated for this project: (1) number of characters on card (2) mean distance
from centre of eyes to center of mouth for all characters (3) mean value of
pixels within faces of all characters. 
...


Method

A sample of 100 images was obtained from the major Pokemon repository at
http:/www.pokemonrepository.org. These 100 images were randomly sampled from a
larger set downloaded by the author. All duplicates and non-Pokemon card images
were first removed from this larger set. Pre-processing to obtain instances was
carried out on all images using the standard image processing tools at
http:/www.imageprocessingtools.org. Following this values for the new
features were generated for the training set examples to form a second training
set with the standard plus the new features.
...

Two types of classification algorithm were investigated in this project, namely
decision-trees and back-propagation neural networks (Mitchell, 1997).
...


Results

The classifiers were compared using both the training set with
only standard features and the extended training set with standard
features plus the new features. The results from 10-fold cross-validation
are in Table 1. The learning time for classifiers is shown in the graph
of Figure 2.
...


Discussion

As can be seen from the results in Table 1, including the new features
clearly improves classification performance for both decision trees
and neural network. This difference is significant according to
a paired t-test.
...


Related work

To the best of our knowledge on-one else has attempted this task before.
The approach is related however to the work of Smith and Jones (2008)
who applied classifier learning to images of baseball cards.

...


Conclusions

From the results it can be concluded that the new features specifically
designed for the task of classifying Pokemon cards led to improved
predictive accuracy on this task.
...


Acknowledgements

[if required]


References

Mitchell, T. "Machine Learning". McGraw Hill, 1997.

Smith, J, and Jones, S. "Classifying images of baseball cards". Journal of
Baseball, 2008, Volume 27, 119-133.
